---
title: Approvals Agent responsible AI FAQ
description: This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about Approvals Agent.
author: abriccetti
ms.author: abriccetti
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.date: 04/24/2025
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.collection:
  - bap-ai-copilot
---


# Approvals Agent (Production Ready Preview): Responsible AI FAQ

[!INCLUDE[banner](../includes/banner.md)]
  
### What is the Approvals Agent?

The Approvals Agent in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Operations assists project managers by completing an initial review of all time, expense, and material entries that were submitted. The agent reviews these using a combination of business logic and large language models (LLM) to evaluate each entry against the organization’s policy documents.

Based on the agent’s interpretation of the relevant policy document and review outcomes, if there aren't any policy violations, the agent determines it to be low risk and classifies it as ready for approval. If there's one or more policy violation, the agent determines it to be high risk, and it for human review, and provides a rationale for why review is needed. 

The Approvals Agent reduces the cognitive overload for the project manager at the close of the invoice period. During the close of the period, the project manager may need to review hundreds of approvals and send them for invoicing while also helping to proactively identify issues that require invoice corrections later.

### What can Approvals Agent do? 

The Approvals Agent, using Microsoft Copilot Studio, offers the following capabilities: 

- Provides a first review of all submitted time and expense approvals and suggests which ones need more reviews.
- Allows for auto approval of low-risk transactions
- Provides insights to help approvers make accurate decisions and recommendations for addressing high-risk transactions.

### What is Approvals Agent’s intended use?

The intended uses of the Approvals Agent are:

- To help classify transactions as high-risk or low-risk transactions and to assign a status of **Ready for approval** to transactions that don't have policy violations. The agent assigns a status of **Needs review** to transactions that have one or more policy violations. 
- To evaluate each transaction against the relevant (time, expense, or material) uploaded policy document, and to generate the justification when transactions are classified as requiring review.
- To enable tracking of the agent’s impact on business metrics and user productivity. 

### How was Approvals Agent evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

- This system was evaluated multiple times using automated tests and manual reviews to measure the accuracy of review status and justification generated for each approval record by comparing them against the policy document used for evaluation. 
- In addition to this, the content generated by this system was evaluated through a red-teaming process to test for groundedness and various kinds of harm. 
- Our priority is to ensure that the agent is developed according to [Microsoft's Responsible AI standards](https://aka.ms/RAIStandardPDF). To meet this goal, a rigorous assessment process spanning a range of areas like security, privacy, legal, etc. is completed before the system gets deployed to users. 

### What are the limitations of Approvals Agent? How can users minimize the impact of Approval Agent’s limitations when using the system?

- The accuracy of the output varies greatly depending upon the quality of the input, that is, the policy documents. Therefore, the policy documents must be crafted with care. The system may not perform well if approval criteria in the policy documents are ambiguous or if there are conflicting policies in the policy documents.
- The classification and reasoning generated by the agent may vary based on the quality of data in the submitted time, expense, or material usage entries and the specific use case.

- **To mitigate the above issues**:
    - Admins should run preliminary tests in Copilot Studio using the policy document they intend to use in their environment and gauge if the results meet their expectations. 
    - In certain cases, users may need to tweak the language used in the policy documents to improve accuracy of output (the review status and reason generated by the agent). 
    - Users should avoid creating conflicting policies in the documents to avoid confusing the agent. 
    - Although two modes of classification are supported, we suggest using **Classify Only** mode during configuration to prevent automatic approval of **Ready for approval** transactions. 

### What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of Approvals Agent?

- Admins can enable the feature using feature control settings. Enabling the feature allows for the automatic submission of time entries on behalf of team members and provides insights on the submitted time, expense, and material entries, enabling project managers to make informed approval decisions. 
- At any point in time, if any issues are observed with the system output, admins have the flexibility to disable the feature using feature control settings.
- If the feature is enabled, only record types with an uploaded policy document are reviewed. For example, if only a time policy document is uploaded, then only time entries are reviewed by the approvals agent.
- If no policy documents are uploaded, then no records are reviewed. 
- The functioning of the agent has been reviewed in accordance with Responsible AI policies. If the inputs into the agent (submitted entries/ policy document) are evaluated to be outside the boundaries of Responsible AI, then the agent is likely to flag these for further human review. 

### How do I provide feedback on Approvals Agent?

- During the production ready preview of the Approvals Agent, there's a mechanism for users to provide thumbs up/down feedback on any reviewed record. 
- This feedback mechanism may be enhanced in the future with an option to provide more detailed feedback directly within the product. 
- General feedback on the feature can be shared through existing Dynamics 365 Project Operations Teams channel, or via support requests.    

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
