---
title: Copilot in time entry (preview) Responsible AI FAQs
description: This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about Copilot in time entry.
author: mohitmenon
ms.author: mohitmenon
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.date: 04/24/2024
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.collection:
  - bap-ai-copilot
---

# Copilot for time entry responsible AI FAQ

[!INCLUDE[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about using Copilot in time entry within Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Operations.

### What is Copilot in time entry?

Copilot in time entry acts as a new way for project team members to complete all activities related to logging weekly time entries in a streamlined manner. The goal is to take away the tedious nature of the time entry process by giving team members a way to log their time.

### What can Copilot in time entry do?

Copilot in time entry is enabled with a limited set of capabilities and will receive updates over the coming months. The currently supported scenarios are: 

- Copilot in time entry can use team members’ project assignments to suggest time entries for that week that can be used to create draft time entries without duplication. Final control over what gets submitted for approval is left with the team members, who can modify these entries before submission.
- Copilot in time entry can also generate a first draft of customer-facing comments for each entry. These comments are generated by using information like _Project, Project Task, Role,_ and _Duration_ to harness the abilities of large language models powered by Azure OpenAI for each time entry. These generated comments can then be edited to meet customer requirements before saving to each time entry. This feature significantly reduces the time taken to add comments to all entries for a week when compared to the existing, form-based experience.

   > [!NOTE]
   > The fields being considered (Project, Project Task, Role, and Duration) cannot currently be customized for generating external comments.

### What are the intended uses for Copilot in time entry?

As an AI assistant for project team members, the intended uses of Copilot in time entry are: 

- **Creation of time entries** - Project team members use Copilot in time entry to create their time entries for the current week, based on the user's existing project assignments.
- **Add comments** - Users can generate and link generated descriptions to these entries after required modifications and submit them for approval in a more efficient manner when compared to the existing process that is followed.

This section will be updated with other intended uses over time, as Copilot in time entry receives updates with each release. 

### How was Copilot in time entry evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance? 

- Copilot in time entry went through a series of functional evaluations to ensure that it's able to effectively respond to the user scenarios that it's intended for.
- Copilot in time entry is aimed at improving the life of project team members. Our priority is to ensure it's developed according to [Microsoft’s Responsible AI standards](https://query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RE4ZPmV) before being deployed to users.
  -  To ensure this goal, a process involving rigorous assessments around privacy, security (red teaming for varied threats), accessibility, etc. are completed before being deployed to customers.  

### What are the limitations of Copilot in time entry? How can users minimize the impact of Time Entry Copilot’s limitations when using the system? 

- As of now, Copilot in time entry can only log time for the current week (week in which date of time entry creation resides) and can't be used for a past or future weeks. This scenario can be addressed by ensuring timely creation of time entries before the end of the current week so you don't have to create entries for an older week.
  > [!NOTE]
  > Copilot in time entry doesn't use the user’s local time zone settings. It instead considers the UTC date (as per GMT+0 time zone) while selecting the week for which time is being logged.
- Copilot in time entry doesn't refresh the time entry grid in real-time on completion of an action that is triggered from the sidecar. The user must refresh the time entry grid to view these changes.


### What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of Copilot in time entry? 

- Consistently ensuring that team members are “assigned” to project tasks before they begin working on them makes Copilot in time entry an effective mode of creating time entries.
- Team members that use Copilot in time entry to create their time entries must ensure they review the suggested entries before creating them. In addition to this step, any external comments generated via Copilot must be vetted by the user to ensure they meet customer standards before being submitted for approval.
- Existing customizations that are in place for Time Entry won't work out-of-the-box with Copilot in time entry scenarios. More effort is required to integrate them into Copilot in time entry scenarios. Create a support ticket with Microsoft for assistance with integrating critical customizations.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
