---
title: Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent responsible AI FAQ (preview)
description: This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent.
author: mohitmenon
ms.author: mohitmenon
ms.topic: faq 
ms.date: 04/29/2025
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.collection:
  - bap-ai-copilot
---

# Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent responsible AI FAQ (preview)

[!INCLUDE[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about how to use the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Operations.

### What is the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent?

This agent is an Artificial Intelligence (AI) based system that runs in the background to create weekly time entries for project team members in an organization. The agent does so based on projects or tasks to which a team member is either assigned or has capacity booked to. This system can also refer to a team member's previous week's time entries as a source to create new entries.
It also sends reminders for any missing time entries for a week. The agent communicates with team members through Microsoft Teams. 

### What can the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent do?

The overall goal of the agent is to eliminate delays in the process of submitting time entries for approval and the broader invoicing process as well. It does so with the following set of current capabilities: 
- The Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent uses information from project assignments, bookings, and previous week's entries (when no information of assignments or bookings is available) to generate draft time entries daily, for all team members. 
- The agent also generates external comments to describe the time entries created, by using titles and descriptions of Outlook meetings relevant to projects that the team member is working on. 
- It also sends a reminder for any missing time entries due for that week by comparing submitted hours with the user’s working hours. The agent then suggests Draft entries that the user can submit to fill these missing hours.

> [!NOTE]
> Users can choose not to use their Outlook calendars to generate external comments. In this case, the agent just uses information about the time entry like Project, Task, Role, Duration to generate these comments.

### What are the Time Entry features of the Time and Expense Agent's intended uses?

The intended uses of this agent include:

- **Streamline the time entry submission process** by regularly creating time entries that team members can review using Microsoft Teams or the Project Operations web application.
- **Minimize occurrences** where team members miss submitting time entries, by utilizing weekly reminders and suggested time entries to be submitted.

### How was the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance? 

- This system was evaluated using a series of repeated **functional evaluations** for accuracy of time entries created, by comparing generated entries to the desired outcomes.
- In addition to this evaluation, any content generated by this system was evaluated through a **rigorous compliance evaluation** process to test for groundedness and various kinds of harms.
- Our priority is to ensure that the agent is developed according to [Microsoft's Responsible AI standards](https://aka.ms/RAIStandardPDF). To meet this goal, a rigorous assessment process spanning a range of areas like **Security, Privacy, Legal, etc.** is completed before the system gets deployed to users.

### What are the limitations of the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent? How can users minimize the impact of its limitations when using the system? 

- The current state of this system **relies on** the presence of project **assignments or bookings** (at least one of the two) or **previous week's entries** to be able to generate time entries. Teams that don't use these aspects of project planning within Project Operations are only able to replicate the previous week's entries when it comes to using the agent.
  > [!NOTE]
  > They can still get the benefits of external comments that the agent generates, after creating time entries manually.
- Users can't configure when and how often they receive alerts from the agent. The alert is currently set to be a weekly process done for all team members, triggered at the beginning of their week.
- The Teams **adaptive cards** being used to communicate with users are **static** in nature (which don't update in real-time) and can't be refreshed without triggering the display of new adaptive card that contains the latest information. However, all newly generated adaptive cards will be up to date with time entries reflecting as per the web app.
- Users **can't respond back** to the system in Teams for ad-hoc requests _(For example, "Submit all time entries for Monday")_ and can only interact with the agent using predefined Teams response buttons within an adaptive card. 

### What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent?

- Admins can enable the feature by sharing the Teams app with end users. Doing so gives team members the ability to automate the creation of their time entries and receive alerts or reminders for rejections and missed time entries. 
  > [!NOTE]
  > Users **can disable time entry creation** by the agent at any time using the "Agent preferences" command and select "No" for the question that asks if they want to allow the Agent to create time entries on their behalf.
- Project managers must ensure that team members are either assigned to project tasks or have capacity booked before they begin work. This assignment provides the agent with sufficient inputs to create time entries with accuracy.
- Team members are given the option to:
  - Opt in or out of automated creation of time entries,
  - Decide whether they also want to generate external comments for each entry and
  - If these comments should use relevant Outlook meetings for refinement. These preferences give them more control over the agent’s behavior.
- Team members that opt in for automated time entry generation must review Teams alerts sent by the agent every week to ensure that timely action can be taken by the user whenever required. 

### How do I provide feedback on the Time Entry feature of the Time and Expense Agent?

- During the Public Preview stage of this feature's release, users can provide feedback in the form of a thumbs up or thumbs down input available on the Teams adaptive cards. This information gets tracked by the product team to understand which parts of the experience are most challenging and require improvements.
- This feedback collection mechanism will be further augmented in future releases to allow more subjective feedback from users instead of just a positive or negative sentiment.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
