---
title: Project management Copilot overview
description: This article provides information about Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Operations Copilot features.
ms.date: 06/13/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: bap-template
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.author: poojafandan
author: poojafandan
---

# Project management Copilot overview

[!INCLUDE[banner](../includes/preview-banner.md)]

Project management Copilot is an assistive capability powered by Azure Open AI's large language model. This feature was developed to improve the efficiency of various roles within the product, including the Project manager, Practice manager, and beyond. This capability provides you with a user-friendly and intuitive experience that maximizes productivity while significantly improving the visibility of project performance.

There are four capabilities within the Copilot feature:

- Auto task generation
- Risks and mitigation
- Project summary report
- Copilot's interactive, chat-like experience

## Enable the Copilot Feature

The Copilot feature utilizes Azure Open AI to generate results by using both the Dataverse table and the provided prompts. You can disable the Copilot feature following the same steps. 

To configure the Copilot feature, follow these steps.

1. In Project Operations, select **Settings** \> **Parameters** \> Feature Control** \> **Enable Copilot**.
1. Select **Accept** to enable the feature.
1. Select **See terms** to learn more about the AI terms.
1. Select **OK** to enable the feature.
1. Select **Save**.

> [!Important]
> In adherence to ethical guidelines and responsible AI usage, projects aimed at suggesting offensive, destructive, or abusive content isn't created using Copilot. Azure Open AI (AOAI) incorporates robust filters and safeguards to help prevent the generation of such content.

## Auto task generation

The Auto task generation with Suggested duration and efforts feature enables Project managers to create a list of tasks for a project that includes suggested durations and efforts for each task. The feature uses machine learning algorithms, including natural language processing powered by Azure Open AI, to analyze the project name and description, and create tasks that can be modified by the Project manager.

The Project manager, or any other intended user, must provide the project name to generate the suggested tasks for the project. The relevancy of the tasks increases as more specific information is added in the project details.

To use Auto generated tasks to create a work breakdown structure (WBS), follow these steps.

1. On the **Projects** command bar, select **New project**.
1. Provide the name of the project. Be specific and ensure that the project name is in context of the type of project.
1. Provide the description. This field isn't a mandatory to auto generate the tasks, but it provides context to help create more relevant tasks.
1. Provide other details, such as project start and finish date. If the start date isn't provided, the Copilot takes the project creation date and time as the start date.
1. On the command bar, select the **Copilot Suggestions** dropdown, and then select **Task plan**. AI generates the task name, duration and start date. A maximum of 100 tasks are created based on your project name.

If the task creation was successful, you see a message on top of the command bar notifying that the tasks are created using AI. If the task creation wasn't successful, you see an error message on top of the command bar.

Within the task details, you notice a distinctive label of **suggested by AI** for all tasks created using AI. These tasks can be customized to align with your specific project requirements. Additionally, you have the flexibility to add manual tasks into this list. Once the tasks are created, the process for editing, removing, or appending them is the same as with [manually created tasks.](create-wbs.md). Autogenerated tasks ***do not*** create assignees, dependencies, or task checklist items. You can add all the desired parameters after the tasks are generated.

> [!Note]
> The auto generated tasks do NOT create assignees, dependencies or task checklist items automatically. You can add all the desired parameters once the tasks are auto generated.

## Risk Assessments

The automated generation of risks and mitigation aims to assist Project managers with identifying and documenting potential threats that could impact the project's well-being. This Copilot feature uses a project's metadata such as project's scope, schedule, and budget, to create risks to alert stakeholders about factors that may hinder project progress. The mitigation plan provides Project managers with a set of recommended steps to address and minimize the identified risks. This proactive approach equips Project managers with the means to effectively manage and mitigate potential obstacles to help ensure the project remains on track and minimizes any adverse impact.

To autogenerate risk assessments, follow these steps.

1. Select the project for which you want to auto generate risks and mitigations.
1. On the command bar, select the **Risks** tab.
1. On the command bar select the **Copilot suggestions** drop down, and the select **Risks and mitigations**. If the process is successful, you receive a message on top of command bar notifying that risks and mitigations are created using Copilot. If the process wasn't successful, you receive an error message.
1. New or existing risks can be added manually using the **New risk** and **Add existing risk** options available on the command bar.
1. To edit, activate, deactivate, delete, or assign risks, select the risk in the grid.
1. Select the arrow button at the bottom right of the window to navigate to risks and mitigation on the next page.

## Status Report

The Copilot project status report empowers Project managers by providing a head start in automatically generating the essential components of the report. It allows them to concentrate on crafting the narrative text utilizing autogenerated narration and refining project-specific relevance, without expending energy on monotonous and repetitive tasks such as data aggregation and summarization. The summary report provides valuable insights into the practice leads and other leadership members in tracking progress, evaluating performance, and making informed decisions.

To generate a project status report, follow these steps.

1. Select the project for which the project status report is to be created.
1. On the command bar, select **Copilot suggestions**, select **Status report**, and then select either **Internal** or **External**.
   - The internal report contains budget value and budget tracking with breakdown.
   - The external report provides insights into overall tasks metrics.
1. You can share, download, delete, print, and assign this report using the options available in the command bar.

The report is created using AI and the project metadata stored in the Dataverse tables. The key components of the report are:

- **Title banner**: This section indicates whether the report is internal or external. It provides information such as the user's identity, date of creation, project name, and report status.
- **AI notification**: An indication that the content of the report has been generated by AI.
- **Summary**: Utilizing the project's financial, resource, effort, and schedule data, a concise overview of the current and recent project status is presented. This section of the summary report is editable.
- **Charts and graphs**: Visual representations, including financial, task, or effort-related graphs and charts, are derived from the project's data stored in the Dataverse tables. This section of the summary report isn't editable.

> [!Important]
> While the AI-generated summary narrative provides an initial overview, it may not always accurately represent the project's true context or health. Therefore, all parts of the summary narration are editable and should be thoroughly reviewed by the Project manager prior to finalization and distribution. Any necessary edits should be made to ensure an accurate representation of the project's status.

## Copilot interactive experience

There's a chat-format Copilot assistant available where you can ask questions and get assistance in creating tasks, risks, and summary reports. Copilot assistant generates contextual answers based on user questions within the project's scope, providing a seamless and personalized experience.

You can select the **Copilot** icon to hide the assistant window.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
